Thank you very much.
I bow to all the seekers of truth!
It is to be understood that truth is what it is.
We cannot conceptualize it.
We cannot achieve it
by our human efforts or mental projections.
We have to reach into a higher state to know it,
to know it.
The song that they sung just now,
was written in the year sixteen hundred in India,
by a very famous poet, Namadeva,
who was a tailor.
Loudly.
In the sixteenth century.
And they have been singing the song in the villages of India,
with the same folk tune.
It says that
“I will ask for Yoga, that is the union with the Divine,
from Mother”.
"Ai" is the Mother. “I’ll ask the Mother to give me the Yoga”.
And the “Ude, ude Ambe!” means that
“O, Mother Kundalini, please rise, ude, ude, please rise!
So this knowledge of our roots was known
to many people all over the world,
especially in India, to many saints.
This Namadeva once went to meet another saint,
who was a potter, making things out of clay.
His name was Gora.
He saw him and then he says,
in very beautiful couplet he describes
this personality of a potter.
He says, “I came here,
to see the formless,  that is this All-pervading Power.
But I see It  in person, in form.”
And he embraced with great joy!
This is the acknowledgement.
This is the knowledge of a saint about another saint.
There is no jealousy,
there is no competition,
there is no knowledge to be asked about the person.
Just through this
emission of vibrations, of cool breeze of the Holy Ghost,
you can understand who is the saint.
So the time has come for us to know the truth.
I call it the “Blossom time”,
when there are so many people who are seeking the truth.
Of course, it’s a living process of a living energy
of living God.
You cannot pay for anything that is living process.
Like we sprout a seed in the Mother Earth,
your Kundalini sprouts, spontaneously.
And you get the blessings of the Divine Power.
It is an All-pervading divine Power,
about which all the Scriptures have talked.
Essence of all the religions is that, "seek the Eternal".
And transitory, is to be treated, with understanding,
in its own limitations.
But, when we see the problems of
religion and religious people,
we start wondering, what is this all about?
One may be a Hindu, Christian, Muslim, any religion,
commits any sin, there is no bounding on him.
Nobody says, that “See, I am of this religion,
I can’t commit this mistake”.
Then on one side you see the fanaticism.
And another side, you see people criticizing God
and all the great prophets,
because they don’t understand Divinity.
And this has lead to a great confusion in this modern times.
So, we have to ascend and know the Absolute
and the absolute truth.
In the West, as you see,
we have so many modern things,
and we have evolved like a tree outside.
But we do not know our roots.
Unless and until the tree knows the roots,
there is always a danger of its destruction.
That’s why we have problems today of ecology.
We have problems of AIDS, drugs, all other extreme things.
We have no balance.
Machines we make, they are for us, we are not for machines.
We discovered science for us, not for science.
We are the masters.
Why should there be problems within us and without?
Also we find we are not integrated.
There is a very little problem, that is,
we do not know the Absolute.
And Absolute is the truth for everyone.
You become part and parcel of the whole.
The microcosm becomes the macrocosm.
Like this hand feels the pain
and another just comes to soothe it,
automatically, spontaneously.
This hand doesn’t give pain to this hand.
does not want to hurt it.
This transformation has to take place among human beings.
Then all barriers will drop and dissolve.
And we’ll realize that we are created by one Creator,
and the whole world is One.
But just by having foundations of peace,
foundations of cooperation,
is all mental. It's not going to help us.
This transformation has to take within ourselves,
to solve our problems.
But as a result of this happening, you are empowered
that you can give Realizations to others and transform others.
You are empowered that you can cure others
and you can give comfort to others.
You are empowered that you can council others
about reality.
Above all, you become peace yourself.
You feel your peace
and wherever you go, you emit peace and bliss.
You become joy,
and wherever you go, you emit joy.
Joy, which has no duality of unhappiness and happiness.
It seems fantastic.
But human beings are fantastic.
They don’t know their glory, they are not aware of it.
Say, for example, this instrument is not put to the mains,
it has no meaning.
People are trying to find their meanings.
First get connected to the whole.
One has to make connected to this All-pervading Power,
which is a subtle power, which does all living things.
We see the flowers and we see
that the trees have different fruits.
Who does the choices and who makes all that?
Just look at our eyes itself,
are the best camera as that you could think of.
We are already programmed to be a computer.
We don’t think, it just works.
But now you have to become the divine computer.
Unless and until that happens,
we'll have all the problems and more problems and more problems.
So, we have to be that powerful personality,
that compassionate personality, that dynamic personality.
And powerful.
And you should know all about your powers, too.
All this is absolutely easy.
We have lots of time, we have watches on,
to save the time, but where do we waste it?
If we could say,
if you could spend some time on ourselves,
then we don’t even need a watch. It works.
And then you enter into the Kingdom of God,
which is miraculous.
And miracles of every kind, you see and you are amazed.
So many here are Sahaja Yogis, all over the world.
It is working now in thirty nations.
And they all can tell you so many miracles.
In India... All right.
In India we have the University of Delhi,
which has recognized Sahaja Yoga, for the course of MD
and three doctors have submitted
their thesis for it and have got it through.
For doctors.
And they have done subjects like physical fitness,
and psychosomatic diseases like cancer,
and thirdly, epilepsy.
Psychosomatic.
And physical, physical abilities, physical fitness.
So it is for us to know about oneself
and to enjoy ourselves and others.
It is not frivolous
and it is not serious.
It is mirth and joy, mirth.
What is mirth Mother?
Mirth is fun.
No word in French?
I’m sorry, so now we'll have to introduce new word in French.
When I first came on My program,
I had one Sahaja Yogini in London,
and when I first came, she told Me that,
“Mother, You should not smile at all,
because French think that life is all misery”.
And that, ”If you do not feel sorry,
then they’ll think you are ignoramus,
you don’t know anything about the world.”
Ignoramus, ignorant.
No, no, no, that I am a ignoramus, if I'm not miserable.
I'd read a novel of Victor Hugo, “Les miserable”,
and I started with that to them, "dear les miserable".
So that is not so.
The Creator, who has created this creation,
will never allow it to be destroyed.
He has created you, also, so beautifully, so carefully,
and everything is laid down within you.
Whatever may be the past, please forget it.
And the future doesn’t exist.
In the present you all are going to get your Self-Realization.
May God bless you all!
Should I ask them to ask questions or something?
Because that it prolongs a lot. What do you say?
I should ask? All right.
Now, if you want to ask Me some questions, please do.
But by asking questions and knowing the answers,
the Kundalini does not rise.
I am telling you the truth.
If you have any questions, you can ask Me.
[unclear]
It seems to be all interested of their Realization, Mother.
No question?
There's one gentleman there.
He is saying, do You think, Mother, that the technique of Japa
is very good for Self-Realization?
No, my child, no.
You see, the Japa is,
they give you some name or something to recite.
Now, it’s like a car.
If it is ignited,
if it is ignited and when it starts moving,
you know where is the obstruction.
Supposing I am in London,
and I have to come to Paris.
Now, on the way, I’ve not moved out at all.
Sitting in London if I say
“Open the door of Paris”, what is the use?
Like the Kundalini has to rise.
And passes through six centers.
And any center, which is closed,
that you can find out, we can find out, they can find out.
Then we'll we have to of course
say something which I will show you, just now,
during meditation, just now,
while your Kundalini will be rising. But the Kundalini must act.
Moreover...
Moreover, supposing I want to meet Mr. Mitterrand, all right?
Now, for meeting him,
supposing I go to his door and start shouting,
“Oh, Mitterrand, Mitterrand, Mitterrand.”
The police will arrest Me.
I must take permission, I must have the protocol,
I should be allowed to go inside,
othewise it's not proper.
In the same way if you say,
if you take the name of anyone of the Deities,
without Kundalini awakening, without proper protocol,
the doors are closed. Not only that,
but these chakras get spoilt, you get arrested.
If it is with the president,
I am talking about God All-mighty,
who is the President of all the presidents.
So, how can you do it? This is unauthorized.
All right?
Is it possible...?
He's asking Mother, it's possible to be connected with the Divine,
Is it possible?
To be connected with the Divine without Kundalini awakening?
No. You cannot create a tree without sprouting the seed.
That’s what Christ has said: “Know thyself”.
Without the Kundalini you cannot know yourself.
This is described as the Tree of Life, in the Bible.
What about Pranayama and Hatha Yoga?
Pranayama is not going to help you, at all.
Is a, you see, it's more physical.
And we do pranayama, also, in Sahaja Yoga,
but it is a very scientific, whenever it is necessary.
Here the people do all these pranayama and all these yoga
things as if taking all the medicines from the medicine-box,
without a doctor.
The best way to know is this way.
You must have seen many people who are doing pranayama,
who are doing yoga.
What do you do, they do, when they run too much,
what is it called in America?
Jogging.
Ha, they do jogging.
Oh, they all run like mad, everybody runs.
Everybody is running, all as if there's an earthquaqe,
whether it is old, young, anything, everybody is running in America.
So, anything you do,
you must find out,
what is the transformation that has come in that person?
Is there, are they sweet people,
are they joyous, are they peaceful?
Hatha yogis are such that,
if they come from this door, better run away from the other,
the way they are horrid and hot temper.
I know some.
Mostly they divorce their wives, give up their children,
there is no sweetness.
Hitler was a Hatha Yogi, do you know that?
And a follower of a Lama. Double.
And a follower of a Lama.
Not this one, another one.
All right. There is another one gentleman asked.
So you asked one question.
What he is saying?
He is asking what do you think of Bhakta Yoga?
Hatha Yogi?
Bhakti Yoga.
Who is Bhakta Yogi, I don’t know. What do you think?
Is the point.There are all kinds of bhakta, sakta, kata.
But how am I to know all of them?
Only thing I can say that you just see yourself.
You can know yourself.
You must know that Indians can be very cunning people,
I’m sorry to say.
Because we have had three hundred years the company of the English.
Anything for which you have to pay, is all falsehood.
That is as simple, very simple!
You people are very vulnerable because you are seekers.
So be careful, don’t get lost!
How do we protect ourselves from negative vibrations, if we have?
How do we protect ourselves from negative vibrations?
That we’ll tell you everything,
and we’ll be having a course.
You’ll be expert.
And no negative forces will come near you. They'll all run away.
One day they'll run away from Paris
and then from the whole of France.
Let’s have it now. It’s there one more lady, there.
She's asking [unclear] because once we achieve the complete
the complete [unclear] we are deviating
compared to others, you know, in respect to others, because
others do not understand that.
They will understand. Everybody understands love.
All right, let's have it.
It's he a Hatha yogi?
He is a seeker, all right, all right. Ask the question.
If he is a seeker, he has a right!
What do you think of these Krishna movement, Mother?
Krishna who?
I mean you yourself judge.
In India, when we get up, we take the Rama’s name,
when we say somebody as “Good Morning”, we say "Ram",
“Good evening”, "Ram". What have we achieved?
Krishna is supposed to be Kubera, is the Lord of wealth,
and his disciples are begging on the streets.
How can that be?
What he is saying?
Someone who doesn't know anything about Kundalini,
can he get his Realization?
Of course. That’s much better!
That’s much better. Much better.
That’s innocence.
Those who know about it, are mostly very crooked people.
They misuse it.
They frighten people.
Actually there is nothing to be known about Kundalini.
But you see, you know French people, you cannot just ask them,
to take their Realization.
You have to tell them something about it, after all.
Like, when you come in this room,
if you have to put the lights, you just switch on one light.
You don’t have to tell what is the history,
how it came in, what is the source, you see.
But, if it’s a French man, you may have to tell little bit.
All right.
There are two conditions.
One condition is that,
we are not to feel guilty at all, forget the past.
Second condition is that you have to forgive everyone.
Because both things are myths.
Whether you forgive or don’t forgive, you don’t do anything.
But if you don’t forgive, then you play into wrong hands.
So don’t say it is difficult. Is the easiest thing to say,
“I forgive”, everytime.
Ones you forgive, the Divine takes over.
So, you have to have these two conditions fulfilled.
If you want to have Self-Realization,
you all have to help to raise your Kundalini,
as I'll tell you.
But, if you don’t want to have, I cannot force you.
It's in your freedom and in your glory, you have to get it.
So all such people, if they don’t want,
they can leave the hall, you cannot force.
Now, we have to take the help of the Mother Earth,
so if you don’t mind, you'll have to take out your shoes.
And you have to sit comfortably,
with both the legs, both the feet apart from each other.
Tomorrow, tomorrow I will tell you more about the
left and right channel, and two energies,
but today remember, that left and right are two energies within us.
So, we put our left hand like this, towards Me,
and the right hand we have to use for the action.
You come up, come.
I'll stand up, I think. Can you put it up?
First I will show you, then we'll have to close the eyes.
You have to put your left hand towards Me like this.
I think most of them got Realization in the music only.
And the right hand we have to use for giving
energy to our centers on the left hand side.
So we put our left hand towards Me, like this,
symbolizing our desire to get Realization.
So right hand we put it on our heart.
In the heart resides the Spirit,
which is the reflection
of God Almighty, the Creator, in our heart.
Then we take down our right hand
in the upper part of our abdomen.
This is the center of our mastery.
All the prophets and great masters have built this for us.
Then we take down our right hand
in the lower portion of our abdomen,on the left hand side.
This is the center of pure knowledge,
the pure knowledge that manifest
through our central nervous system,
beyond mental projections.
Then we take our right hand in the upper part of our abdomen,
on the left hand side, again.
Then, onto our heart.
Then we take our right hand in the corner of our shoulder
and our neck, and we turn our head to our right.
I think you also do it, otherwise everybody is watching.
Now, so this is the center will catch, when we feel guilty.
Now, we take this hand
on our forehead across it, like this, across
and press it on both the sides.
We bend our head as, while we are pressing.
This is the center for forgiveness.
Then we take our hand on the back side of our head,
and slowly move our head upward like this, allow it to rest.
This is the center
where we have to ask for forgiveness, without feeling guilty.
Now, we spread our hand, stretch it,
and put the center of our palm
on top of our fontanel-bone area,
which was a soft bone in our childhood.
We bend our head and push back our fingers
and press our scalp, hard,
and move it slowly, seven times, clockwise.
That’s all we'll have to do.
Only thing, remember, don’t put hand from this side, put this way,
and stretch your fingers quite a lot
to bring pressure.
This way, put it this way, from the front.
Now, we’ll close your eyes.
You can take out your spectacles, if you like.
And we don’t open our eyes, till I tell you.
All right.
So now, please, put your right hand on your heart.
Left hand towards Me, both the feet away from each other and now...
Here you have to ask Me a very important question,
”Mother, am I the Spirit?”
Ask this questions three times.
Now, if you are the Spirit,
you are your master, you are your guide.
So now, please, put your right hand
in the upper portion of your abdomen.
And, please, ask another question -
you can call Me, Shri Mataji or Mother, whichever suits you -
so please, ask the question
“Mother, am I my own master?” Ask this question three times.
I have already told you,
that I cannot force pure knowledge on you.
You have to know it in your own freedom,
I respect your freedom.
So please take your hand
in the lower portion of your abdomen, on the left hand side
and press it hard.
Here,
please, say: “Mother, give me pure knowledge!”
I cannot force on you. Say it six times, because
this center has got six petals or six sub-plexuses.
As soon as you ask for pure knowledge,
your Kundalini starts moving upward,
so we have to support the centers with our
full confidence, in the higher regions.
So, please, raise your right hand
in the upper portion of your abdomen, on the left hand side.
Here, with full confidence, you have to say,
ten times, ”Mother,
I am my own master!” Say it ten times, please.
Say it ten times.
Now, we have to know, that we are not this body,
we are not this mind, we are not this intellect.
We are not these emotions,
nor we are our conditionings, nor our ego.
We are pure Spirit.
So, please, raise your right hand to your heart,
and say it with full confidence, twelve times,
”Mother, I am the Spirit.”
I have already told you, that
we should not feel guilty at all.
We have to know,
that Divine is the ocean of Love and Compassion.
It is the ocean of joy and bliss.
But above all, it is the ocean of forgiveness.
So whatever mistakes we commit,
are dissolved into this great ocean of forgiveness.
So, please, put your left hand
in the corner of your neck and your shoulder,
and turn your head to your right.
Here...
Here you have to say, with full confidence, sixteen times,
sixteen times,
”Mother, I am not guilty at all.”  Say it with full confidence.
Now, as I have already told you,
that whether we forgive or don't forgive, it is a myth.
But if we don’t forgive, we play into wrong hands.
And the Divinealso, says also,
that " You better look after yourself".
So, now, leave it to the Divine.
Raise your right hand on your forehead
and put the forehead, slowly bending down.
Now, press it hard.
Here, here you have to say,
”Mother, I forgive everyone.” Please, do it. Because of this,
I’ve seen many people, just don’t get Realization.
Say it from your heart, not how many times.
Now, take back your right hand
on the back side of your head
and put the head on it, slowly. Move it upward.
Here now, you have to say without feeling guilty,
without counting your mistakes, from your heart,
“Oh, Divine, if I have done any mistakes, please, forgive me!”
Now, say it from your heart.
Stretch your hand, fully,
and put the center of your palm
on top of the fontanel bone area,
which was a soft bone in your childhood.
This is very important, because it is the actualization of baptism.
Now, just push out your fingers
and press your scalp hard,
and move it seven times.
But here, again, I cannot take your freedom.
So, you have to say seven times,
”Mother, please, give me my Realization!”
I cannot force on you, I respect your freedom.
Push back your fingers.
It's quite in front, not on the back side, front side.
Now, please, take down your hand.
Have there been, more [unclear], it's all right.
Now, see for yourself. Open your eyes slowly.
Open your eyes slowly.
Now, put your right hand towards Me,
and bend your head and see from the left hand,
if you are feeling the cool breeze
coming out of your fontanel bone area, cool or hot.
Now, please put your left hand
and see with the right hand. Bend your head.
Now, see with the right hand, again.
Bend your head, bending down it's better.
Now, raise your hands up like this
and ask a question, three times,
”Mother, is this the cool breeze of the Holy Ghost?
Mother, is this the All-pervading power of God’s Love?
Mother, is this the Brahmachaitanya?”
Ask one of this, three times.
Ask this, any of these questions, three times.
All those, please, take down your hands.
Now, watch Me without thinking. You can do it.
Now, those who have felt the cool breeze
out of their head, or in their hands, or even the heat,
please, raise both your hands!
Oh, My God! See the France. May God bless you all!
So many of you!
So be in silence now.
Don’t argue.
Tomorrow I’m coming again.
If you all come early, then we can start the program
at right time.
And I would like to meet you all, personally, tomorrow.
May God bless you all!
So many of them have felt it.
No one wants to leave.
They are still here.
They wait for Me to go....
Some recording you can put, some musical record, anything.
Any instrumental, so that…
Tomorrow, tomorrow I'll be here.
I’m saying just go and get if you can. Have some sort of a...
Have you got some tape recordings? No tapes.
Tapes? Have you got some musical tapes?
No? You didn't bring any tapes, with you? Music tapes.
Then [who comes out?].
Where are My shoes?
Patrick, also tell them, those who did not get Realization,
should not feel disappointed. Tomorrow all of them will get it.
Tomorrow you should bring because they understand [unclear].